**Important note**: Due to size constraints (file bigger than 50 MB), we couldn't upload the file "member_votes.csv" to the datasets/first_stage path. As a result, if you would like to replicate the results please download the file "member_votes.csv" through the following link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UmeMnNpG7KRlaJn3D7gTjVmsZAIIeLX8/view?usp=sharing and add it to the datasets/first_stage path.

------------------

<p align="center"><strong>Abstract</strong></p>

Brexit, a global pandemic, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and record inflation – few legislative bodies have faced such a cascade of shocks as the European Parliament did during its 9th term (2019–2024). Using the Bipartite Configuration Model and a set of network statistics, this dissertation explores how multi-polarization was characterized during this term by constructing and analyzing co-voting networks across all legislative subjects and within specific legislative subjects. The results contest binary polarization narratives inherited from US/UK scholarship by uncovering a multi-polar landscape. In many legislative subjects, including “Community policies”, “Internal market, single market”, and “External relations of the Union”, coalitions realign fluidly, forming several voting communities rather than a single left-right divide. Ideological affinity and group memberships, not nationality, emerge as the primary forces that bind or separate Members of the European Parliament, reaffirming the chamber’s transnational character. Two quantitative patterns stand out. First, the Greens/EFA and The Left display the highest intragroup cohesion, while governing groups – EPP, S&D, and Renew – often fracture into multiple, issue-driven alliances, suggesting declining centrist disciplines. Second, a distinct Eurosceptic versus Euroenthusiastic cleavage crystallizes in matters concerning the “State and evolution of the Union” subject, cutting across economic and social ideologies and hinting at a budding second dimension of parliamentary conflict. Beyond advancing methodological practice, this dissertation warns that legislative consensus in the European Parliament will hinge on navigating a fluid, multi-polar, issue-driven alliance landscape rather than building stable grand coalitions.
